Write a binary search algorithm
Write a linear search algorithm
Write a bubble sort algorithm
Write a selection sort algorithm


This is an advanced question. Do not worry if you have problems solving it. However, you are certainly welcome to have a go at it!

Write a program that creates and displays a report of 12 Little League baseball players and their batting averages, listed in order of batting average from
highest to lowest. The program should use an array of structures or class objects to store the data, where each structure or object holds the name of a player
and their batting average. Make the program modular by having main call on different functions to input the data, sort the data, perform swaps, and display the report.


Write a program that uses two identical arrays of ten unordered strings. It should display the contents of the first array; then call a function to sort it using a
descending order bubble sort, modified to print out the array contents after each pass of the sort. Next the program should display the contents of the second array;
then call a function to sort it using a descending order selection sort, modified to print out the array contents after each pass of the sort.

Write a program that accepts as input a sentence in which all of the words are run together, but the first character of each word is uppercase. Convert the sentence
to a string in which the words are separated by spaces and only the first word starts with an uppercase letter. For example the string "StopAndSmellTheRoses." would
be converted to "Stop and smell the roses."

In a program you need to store the names and populations of 12 countries. Create
an appropriate array to store this information and then write the code needed to
read the information into the array from a file named pop.dat.

A weather analysis program uses the following array to store the temperature for
each hour of the day on each day of a week.
int temp[7][24];
Each row represents a day (0 = Sunday, 1 = Monday, etc.) and each column
represents a time (0 = midnight, 1 = 1 a.m., … , 12 = noon, 13 = 1 p.m., etc.).
A) Write code to find Tuesday’s average temperature.
B) Write code to find the average weekly noon temperature.

Two arrays are said to be identical if they have same value in the same index for all
indices of the arrays. Create a program with a function that accepts two one-dimensional
arrays and their sizes as arguments. The function should return 1 if the two arrays are
identical, otherwise it should return 0. The main should ask the user to input the size of
the arrays and their values. It should then display whether they are identical or not.

An amateur meteorologist wants to keep track of weather conditions during the past
year’s three-month summer season and has designated each day as either rainy (‘R’),
cloudy (‘C’), or sunny (‘S’). Write a modular program that stores this information in
a 3 × 30 array of characters, where the row indicates the month (0 = June, 1 = July,
2 = August) and the column indicates the day of the month. Note that data is not
being collected for the 31st of any month. The program should begin by calling a
function to read the weather data in from a file. Then it should create a report that
displays for each month and for the whole three-month period, how many days were
rainy, how many were cloudy, and how many were sunny. To help it do this, it
should use a value-returning function that is passed the array, the number of the
month to examine, and the character to look for (‘R’, ‘C’, or ‘S’). This function
should return the number of days the indicated month had the requested weather.
Data for the program can be found in the RainOrShine.dat file located in the
Chapter 8 programs folder on this book’s companion website.

An M * N matrix is a two-dimensional array with M rows and N columns. Write a
modular program that manipulates two matrices A and B, each of the same size. The
program should ask the user to enter values for M and N, and, using nested for loops,
populate both matrices with random numbers between 1 and 10. The program should
then use separate functions to perform the following operations:
• Display each matrix.
• Transpose the first matrix, by changing the columns into rows and the rows into
columns, and display it.
• Display the sum matrix of the two matrices, where each element in the sum
matrix is the sum of the corresponding elements in the two matrices.
Input Validation: M and N should have values of at least 2.

The Lo Shu Magic Square is a grid with three rows and three columns that has the
following properties:
• The grid contains the numbers 1 through 9 exactly.
• The sum of each row, each column, and each diagonal all add up to the same
number. This is shown in Figure 8-18.
15
15
15 15
15 2 9 4
15 6 1 8
15 7 5 3
15
Figure 8-18
Write a program that simulates a magic square using a two-dimensional 3 × 3 array. It
should have a Boolean function isMagicSquare that accepts the array as an argument
and returns true if it determines it is a Lo Shu Magic Square and false if it is not. Test
the program with one array,


The State Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) has asked you to write a program
that grades the written portion of the driver’s license exam, which has 20 multiple-
choice questions. Here are the correct answers:
1.B 5.C 9.C 13.D 17.C
2.D 6.A 10.D 14.A 18.B
3.A 7.B 11.B 15.D 19.D
4.A 8.A 12.C 16.C 20.A
To do this, you should create a TestGrader class. The class will have an answers array
of 20 characters, which holds the correct test answers. It will have two public member
functions that enable user programs to interact with the class: setKey and grade. The
setKey function receives a 20-character string holding the correct answers and copies
this information into its answers array. The grade function receives a 20-character
array holding the test taker’s answers and compares each of their answers to the correct
one. An applicant must correctly answer 15 or more of the 20 questions to pass the
exam. After “grading” the exam, the grade function should create and return to the
user a string that includes the following information:
• A message indicating whether the applicant passed or failed the exam
• The number of right answers and the number of wrong answers
• A list of the question numbers for all incorrectly answered questions
The client program that creates and uses a TestGrader object should first make a single call
to setKey, passing it a string containing the 20 correct answers. Once this is done, it should
allow atest taker’s 20answersto beentered, making sure only answersof A–D are accepted,
and store them in a 20-character array. Then it should call the grade function to grade the
exam and should display the string the function returns. The program should loop to allow
additional tests to be entered and graded until the user indicates a desire to quit.


Create a class that simulates and manages a soft drink machine. Information on each
drink type should be stored in a structure that has data members to hold the drink
name, the drink price, and the number of drinks of that type currently in the machine.
The class should have an array of five of these structures, initialized with the following data.
Drink Name Cost Number in Machine
Cola 1.00 20
Root beer 1.00 20
Orange soda 1.00 20
Grape soda 1.00 20
Bottled water 1.50 20
The class should have two public member functions, displayChoices (which displays
a menu of drink names and prices) and buyDrink (which handles a sale). The class
should also have at least two private member functions, inputMoney, which is called by
buyDrink to accept, validate, and return (to buyDrink) the amount of money input,
and dailyReport, which is called by the destructor to report how many of each drink
type remain in the machine at the end of the day and how much money was collected.
You may want to use additional functions to make the program more modular.
The client program that uses the class should have a main processing loop that calls the
displayChoices class member function and allows the patron to either pick a drink or
quit the program. If the patron selects a drink, the buyDrink class member function is
called to handle the actual sale. This function should be passed the patron’s drink
choice. Here is what the buyDrink function should do:
• Call the inputMoney function, passing it the patron’s drink choice.
• If the patron no longer wishes to make the purchase, return all input money.
• If the machine is out of the requested soda, display an appropriate “sold out”
message and return all input money.
• If the machine has the soda and enough money was entered, complete the sale by
updating the quantity on hand and money collected information, calculating any
change due to be returned to the patron, and delivering the soda. This last action
can be simulated by printing an appropriate “here is your beverage” message.

Write a function whose prototype is
void exchange(int *p, int *q);
that takes two pointers to integer variables and exchanges the values in those
variables.

Write a function
void switchEnds(int *array, int size);
that is passed the address of the beginning of an array and the size of the array. The
function swaps the values in the first and last entries of the array.
